##front [BBC TV Film Leader]
L2-cue_0b
##front Credits: Cornell University U.S.A., The Character of Physical Law, Professor Richard Feynman gives the Messenger Lectures
L2-cue_0
##Title The Relation of Mathematics and Physics
L2-cue_3
#Hi. I can see the audience tonight, so I can see also from the size
L2-cue_4
of it (which last time was a black splot in front of my eyes), that there must be many
L2-cue_5
of you here who are not thoroughly familiar with physics,
L2-cue_6
and also a number that are not too versed in mathematics—and I don’t doubt
L2-cue_7
that there are some who know neither physics nor mathematics very well.
L2-cue_8
That puts a considerable challenge on a speaker who is going to speak on the relation of physics
L2-cue_9
and mathematics—a challenge which I, however, will not accept: I published the title
L2-cue_10
of the talk in clear and precise language, and didn’t make it sound
L2-cue_11
like it was something it wasn’t—it’s the relation of physics and mathematics—and
L2-cue_12
if you find that in some spots it assumes some minor knowledge of physics
L2-cue_13
or mathematics, I cannot help it.
L2-cue_14
It was named so.
L2-cue_15
#In thinking of the applications of mathematics to physics, it’s perfectly natural
L2-cue_16
that mathematics will be useful when large numbers are involved in complex situations.
L2-cue_17
Although, for example, if we took biology, the action of a virus on a bacterium is,
L2-cue_18
if you watch it under the microscope, unmathematical: a jiggling virus finds some spot
L2-cue_19
on this odd—shape bacterium—they’re all different shapes—and finds some spot;
L2-cue_20
maybe it pushes its DNA in, and maybe it doesn’t, and so forth.
L2-cue_21
And yet, if we do the experiment with millions and billions of bacteria and viruses,
L2-cue_22
then we can learn a great deal about the virus—it’s like taking averages and working
L2-cue_23
with large numbers: we can use the mathematics involved in the averaging;
L2-cue_24
we can see whether the viruses develop in the bacteria some new strains, and what percentage,
L2-cue_25
so we can study the genetics, the mutation, and so forth.
L2-cue_26
#To take another—more trivial—example,
L2-cue_27
imagine an enormous board—a checkerboard—to play checkers (or draughts):
L2-cue_28
if the board is very large, the actual operation
L2-cue_29
of any one step is not mathematical—or very simple, if it is mathematical:
L2-cue_30
it either goes one side or the other on the diagonal, or it reaches [the end]
L2-cue_31
and becomes a king, and can go backwards when it reaches the end.
L2-cue_32
In other words, the statement of the rules are very simple,
L2-cue_33
and do not really involve any mathematics.
L2-cue_34
But you could imagine that on an enormous board with lots and lots of pieces,
L2-cue_35
some analysis of the best move—or good moves or bad moves—might be made by a deep kind
L2-cue_36
of reasoning, which would involve somebody having gone off first and thought about it
L2-cue_37
in great depth-and that becomes mathematics, this abstract reasoning.
L2-cue_38
#Another example is switching, in computers.
L2-cue_39
If you have one switch, it’s either on or off, and there’s nothing very mathematical
L2-cue_40
about that (although mathematicians like to start there with their mathematics).
L2-cue_41
But with all the interconnections and wires to figure
L2-cue_42
out what a very large system will do, one requires a mathematics.
L2-cue_43
#I would like immediately to say
L2-cue_44
that a mathematics has its primary application—it has a tremendous application—in
L2-cue_45
physics in the discussion of the detailed phenomena in complicated situations,
L2-cue_46
granting the fundamental rules of the game.
L2-cue_47
And that is something which, if I were talking only about the relation of mathematics
L2-cue_48
and physics, I would spend most of my time discussing.
L2-cue_49
But since this is part of a series of lectures on the character of physical law,
L2-cue_50
I do not have the time to discuss the applications of mathematics and physics
L2-cue_51
to calculating what happens in complicated situations.
L2-cue_52
But we’ll go immediately to another question, which is the character of the fundamental law.
L2-cue_53
#If we go back to our checker game,
L2-cue_54
the fundamental laws are the rules by which the checkers move.
L2-cue_55
The mathematics may be applied in a complex situation—to figure out what happens
L2-cue_56
in the next move, what’s a good move to make
L2-cue_57
in a complicated situation—but very little mathematics is needed in the fundamental,
L2-cue_58
simple character of the basic laws.
L2-cue_59
#Now, the strange thing about physics is,
L2-cue_60
that for the fundamental laws, we still need mathematics.
L2-cue_61
For example-well, I give two examples: one in which we really do not, and one in which we do.
L2-cue_62
#There’s a law in physics called Faraday’s Law, which says that in electrolysis the amount
L2-cue_63
of material which is deposited is proportional to the current,
L2-cue_64
and to the time that the current is acting—and that means that the amount
L2-cue_65
of material is proportional to the charge which goes through the system.
L2-cue_66
Well, it sounds very mathematical.
L2-cue_67
But what’s actually happening is that electrons going through the wire each carry one charge.
L2-cue_68
To take an example, a particular example,
L2-cue_69
it may be that to deposit one atom requires one electron to come, and so the number of atoms
L2-cue_70
that are deposited are necessarily proportional to the number of electrons that flow,
L2-cue_71
and thus to the charge that goes through the wire.
L2-cue_72
So the mathematically-appearing law has as its basis nothing very deep,
L2-cue_73
requiring no real knowledge of mathematics, that one electron is needed for each atom
L2-cue_74
in order for it to deposit itself.
L2-cue_75
That’s not a deep-that’s mathematics, if I had to say, number one, but it’s not the kind
L2-cue_76
of mathematics I’m talking about tonight.
L2-cue_77
#Now, if we take, on the other hand, Newton’s law for gravitation (which has these aspects
L2-cue_78
which I wrote down last time just to impress you with the speed
L2-cue_79
at which mathematical symbols can convey—can carry—information),
L2-cue_80
we said that the force was proportional to the product of the masses of two objects,
L2-cue_81
and inversely as the square of the distance between them, and that bodies react to forces
L2-cue_82
by changing their speeds—or changing their motions—in a direction of the force
L2-cue_83
by amounts proportional to the force, and inversely proportional to their masses.
L2-cue_84
Now that’s words all right, and I didn’t have to write the equation, but nevertheless it’s kind
L2-cue_85
of mathematical, and we would wonder: how can this be a fundamental law?
L2-cue_86
How can this planet out there look—what does it do?
L2-cue_87
It looks at the sun, and it sees how far away it is, and it decides to calculate
L2-cue_88
on its internal adding machine the inverse of the square
L2-cue_89
of the distance-and that tells it how much to move?
L2-cue_90
This is certainly no explanation of the machinery of gravitation!
L2-cue_91
So you might want to look further, and various people have tried to look further:
L2-cue_92
Newton was originally asked, "It doesn’t mean anything; it doesn’t tell us anything!"
L2-cue_93
He says, "It tells you how it moves.
L2-cue_94
It should be enough—I told you how it moves, not why."
L2-cue_95
#But people are often unsatisfied without a mechanism,
L2-cue_96
and I would like to describe one theory which has been invented (among others) of the type
L2-cue_97
that you might want, that this is a result of large numbers—and that’s why it’s mathematical.
L2-cue_98
And I give this theory—perhaps you’ve thought of it yourself;
L2-cue_99
every once in a while some student comes running in; he suddenly explains gravitation.
L2-cue_100
#Suppose that in the world, everywhere, there are,
L2-cue_101
flying through us at very high speed, a lot of particles.
L2-cue_102
They come equally in all directions; they’re just shooting by, shooting by,
L2-cue_103
shooting by-and once in a while hit us in a bombardment.
L2-cue_104
We and the sun are practically transparent for them—nearly—but some hit,
L2-cue_105
and so it’s not completely transparent.
L2-cue_106
And look what would happen: if the sun is here and the earth is here,
L2-cue_107
then if the sun weren’t here, there would be particles bombarding from all sides,
L2-cue_108
giving little impulses by the rattle of these—bang, bang,
L2-cue_109
the few that hit—which would not shake the earth in any particular direction,
L2-cue_110
because there’s as many coming from one side as the other, from top, from bottom.
L2-cue_111
#However, when the sun is here, the particles which are coming
L2-cue_112
in this direction are partly absorbed by the sun,
L2-cue_113
because some of them hit the sun and don’t go through.
L2-cue_114
Therefore, the number that are coming from this direction toward the earth is less
L2-cue_115
than the number that are coming from the other side,
L2-cue_116
because here they have no opposition from the sun there.
L2-cue_117
#And it’s easy to see (after some mental effort) that the further the sun is away,
L2-cue_118
the less (in proportion of all of the particles) are being taken out of the possible directions
L2-cue_119
in which particles can come—I mean,
L2-cue_120
the solar size appears smaller—in fact inversely as the square of the distance.
L2-cue_121
So there will, therefore, be an impulse toward the sun on the earth that’s inversely
L2-cue_122
as the square of the distance, and is a result of large numbers of very simple operations;
L2-cue_123
just hit one after the other from all directions.
L2-cue_124
#And, therefore, the strangeness
L2-cue_125
of the mathematical relation would be very much reduced,
L2-cue_126
because the fundamental operation is much simpler than calculating the inverse
L2-cue_127
of the square of the distance: this "machine" does the calculating—these particles bouncing.
L2-cue_128
#The only trouble with it is that it doesn’t work—for other reasons:
L2-cue_129
every theory that you make up has to be analyzed against all the possible consequences,
L2-cue_130
to see if it predicts anything else—and this predicts something else.
L2-cue_131
If the earth is moving this way, more particles would hit it from the front than from the back.
L2-cue_132
If you’re running in the rain, more rain hits you in the front of the face than in the back
L2-cue_133
of the head, because you’re running into the rain.
L2-cue_134
And so, as the earth is moving in this direction, it’s running into the particles,
L2-cue_135
rather, and running away from the ones that are chasing it from behind,
L2-cue_136
so that more particles hit it from the front than from the back.
L2-cue_137
And there would be a force also sideways whenever there was any motion [that way].
L2-cue_138
This sideways force would slow the earth up in the orbit
L2-cue_139
and certainly would not have lasted the three or four billion years
L2-cue_140
that it has been going around the sun.
L2-cue_141
So that’s the end of that theory.
L2-cue_142
#Well, you say, that was a good one, though: it got rid of the mathematics
L2-cue_143
for a while; maybe I can invent a better one.
L2-cue_144
And maybe you can, because nobody knows the ultimate.
L2-cue_145
But up to today, from the time of Newton, no one has invented another theoretical description
L2-cue_146
of the mathematical machinery behind this law which does anything else but say the same thing
L2-cue_147
over again, or make the mathematics harder,
L2-cue_148
and at the same time doesn’t produce some wrong phenomenon—I mean
L2-cue_149
like this model does it—but it produces something which isn’t true.
L2-cue_150
#So there is no model of the theory
L2-cue_151
of gravitation today other than the mathematical form.
L2-cue_152
If this were the only law of this character, it would be interesting and rather annoying.
L2-cue_153
But what turns out to be true is that the more we investigate, and the more laws we find,
L2-cue_154
and the deeper we penetrate nature, this disease—that every one
L2-cue_155
of our laws is a purely mathematical statement in rather complex
L2-cue_156
and abstruse mathematics (this is relatively simple mathematics)—gets more and more abstruse,
L2-cue_157
and more and more difficult, as mathematics.
L2-cue_158
#Why? I haven’t the slightest idea why.
L2-cue_159
It is only my purpose in this lecture to tell you about this fact.
L2-cue_160
In other words, it’s my purpose in this lecture to explain, really, why I cannot satisfy you,
L2-cue_161
if you do not understand mathematics too well, in trying to explain nature in any other way.
L2-cue_162
It is the burden of this lecture, in fact, to just tell you the fact that it is impossible
L2-cue_163
to answer—really, honestly—the challenge of explaining, in a way that a person can feel,
L2-cue_164
the beauties of the laws of nature without their having some deep understanding of mathematics.
L2-cue_165
I’m sorry, but it seems to be the case.
L2-cue_166
#You might say, "All right, then, there’s no explanation of the law;
L2-cue_167
at least tell me what the law is—why not tell me in words instead of in the symbols?
L2-cue_168
Mathematics is just a language, and I want to be able to translate the language."
L2-cue_169
And, in fact, I can—and with patience, I think I partly did.
L2-cue_170
I could go a little further and explain more detail—that this means if it’s twice
L2-cue_171
as far away the force is one—fourth as much, and so on—and can convert all these into words.
L2-cue_172
I would be, in other words, kind to the layman, as they all sit,
L2-cue_173
hopeful that you will explain something.
L2-cue_174
Various different people get different reputations for their skill at explaining
L2-cue_175
to the layman in layman’s language these difficult and abstruse subjects.
L2-cue_176
#The layman then searches for book after book with the hope that he will avoid the complexity
L2-cue_177
which ultimately sets in, even by the best expositor of this type.
L2-cue_178
He reads the things, hoping—he finds, as he reads, a generally increased confusion,
L2-cue_179
one complicated statement after the other, one difficult—to—understand thing after the other,
L2-cue_180
all apparently disconnected from one another—and it becomes a little obscure,
L2-cue_181
and he hopes that maybe in some other book there’s some explanation which avoids—I mean,
L2-cue_182
the man almost made it, you see—maybe another fellow makes it right.
L2-cue_183
#I don’t think it’s possible, because there’s another feature:
L2-cue_184
mathematics is not just a language; mathematics is a language plus reasoning;
L2-cue_185
it’s like a language plus logic.
L2-cue_186
Mathematics is a tool for reasoning.
L2-cue_187
It’s in fact a big collection of the results of some person’s careful thought and reasoning.
L2-cue_188
By mathematics it is possible to connect one statement to another.
L2-cue_189
For instance, I can say that the force is directed toward the sun.
L2-cue_190
I can also tell you, as I did before, that the planet moves—so if I draw a line from the sun
L2-cue_191
to the planet, and draw another one at some definite period like three weeks later,
L2-cue_192
the area that is swung out by the planet is exactly the same
L2-cue_193
as it will be the next three weeks, and the next three weeks,
L2-cue_194
and so on, as it goes around the sun.
L2-cue_195
#Now, I could explain both of those statements to you carefully,
L2-cue_196
but I cannot explain why they’re both the same—so
L2-cue_197
that if you don’t appreciate the mathematics, you cannot see that the great variety of facts,
L2-cue_198
the enormous apparent complexity of nature—with all its funny laws and rules,
L2-cue_199
each of which have been carefully explained to you—are really very closely interwoven,
L2-cue_200
that logic permits you to go from one to the other.
L2-cue_201
#It may be unbelievable that I can demonstrate that equal times will be swept
L2-cue_202
out if the forces are directed toward the sun.
L2-cue_203
If I may try, I will show you one demonstration,
L2-cue_204
to show you that those two things really are equivalent, so that you can appreciate
L2-cue_205
that there’s more to merely the statement of the two laws; that the two laws are connected
L2-cue_206
such that reasoning alone will bring you from one to the other;
L2-cue_207
that mathematics is this organized reasoning, and that it’s good to know how
L2-cue_208
to do that-so you will appreciate the beauty of the relationship of the statement.
L2-cue_209
So I’m going to prove, if I may,
L2-cue_210
the relationship that if the forces are directed toward the sun,
L2-cue_211
that the equal areas are swept out in equal time.
L2-cue_212
#So, we start.
L2-cue_213
Here’s the sun, and we imagine at a certain time, let’s say the planet is here,
L2-cue_214
and is moving in such a way that let’s say one second later—or one hour, pick any time,
L2-cue_215
say one second later—it’s moved in such a manner that it has gotten to the position 2.
L2-cue_216
Now, if the sun did not exert any force on it, then by Galileo’s principle,
L2-cue_217
it would keep right on going in a straight line.
L2-cue_218
So in the same interval of time—later, the next second—it’ll move exactly the same distance
L2-cue_219
in the same straight line to the position 3, were there no force.
L2-cue_220
All right.
L2-cue_221
Now first we’re going to show that if there’s no force, equal areas are swept out in equal time.
L2-cue_222
#I remind you that the area of a triangle is half the base times the altitude,
L2-cue_223
and that the altitude is the vertical distance to the base.
L2-cue_224
And that if the triangle is sort of cockeyed (there’s a name for it which I forget—obtuse!
L2-cue_225
obtuse!), then the altitude is this vertical height here.
L2-cue_226
(I know about the triangles; I just don’t know their names.)
L2-cue_227
Now, let us draw the lines to these two points in the case that there was no motion whatsoever.
L2-cue_228
#The question is-it doesn’t draw very well; I’m not accurate,
L2-cue_229
but these two distances are equal, remember.
L2-cue_230
The question is: are these two areas equal?
L2-cue_231
Well, consider the triangle made from the sun and the two points 1 and 2; it’s this one.
L2-cue_232
What’s its area?
L2-cue_233
It’s this base multiplied by this height.
L2-cue_234
And what about the other triangle, which is the triangle in motion from 2 to 3?
L2-cue_235
It’s this base times the same altitude: the two triangles have the same altitude,
L2-cue_236
and as I indicated, the same base and have the same area.
L2-cue_237
So, so far so good.
L2-cue_238
If there were no force from the sun, equal areas would be swept out in equal times;
L2-cue_239
the two triangles have equal areas.
L2-cue_240
But there is a force from the sun, and during this interval from 1 to 2
L2-cue_241
to 3 the sun is pulling and changing the motion
L2-cue_242
in various directions—this way, this way, that way.
L2-cue_243
#To get a good approximation to that, we’ll take the central position, or average position, here,
L2-cue_244
and say that the whole effect during this interval was to change the motion by some amount
L2-cue_245
in this direction, toward the sun.
L2-cue_246
That means that although the particles were moving this way, and would have moved this way
L2-cue_247
in the next second; because of the influence of the sun the motion is altered
L2-cue_248
by an amount that’s poking in this direction, that’s parallel to this,
L2-cue_249
exactly parallel—these lines are parallel.
L2-cue_250
It’s the direction in which this new motion—there’s a new motion,
L2-cue_251
a compound of what I wanted to do and the change that’s been induced by the action of the sun.
L2-cue_252
So it doesn’t really end up at position 3, but rather at position 4.
L2-cue_253
#So now we would like to compare (it’s getting complicated in the diagram) the triangle 2—4—S
L2-cue_254
and 2-3-S-I show you that those are equal.
L2-cue_255
Because they have the same base [2—S] those two triangles—this one here,
L2-cue_256
and the one that happened when we had no force; the one with force,
L2-cue_257
and with no force have the same base.
L2-cue_258
And do they have the same altitude?
L2-cue_259
Sure—because they’re included between parallel lines [2—S and 3—4],
L2-cue_260
and so they have the same altitude.
L2-cue_261
And thus the area of the last triangle I drew [S—2—4] is the same
L2-cue_262
as the second one I drew, this [S]—2—3.
L2-cue_263
And that, I had proved earlier, was the same as the first one [S—1—2].
L2-cue_264
So in the actual orbital motion of the planet, the areas—you have the first
L2-cue_265
in the first second, and in the second second—are equal.
L2-cue_266
#So by reasoning we can see a connection between the the fact
L2-cue_267
that that the force is toward the sun, and that the areas are equal.
L2-cue_268
Ingenious, no?
L2-cue_269
I borrowed this from Newton: it comes right out of the Principia, diagram and all.
L2-cue_270
The letters are different, that’s all—because he wrote in Latin.
L2-cue_271
(These are Arabic numerals.)
L2-cue_272
#Incidentally, Newton made his proof geometrical like this, and made all his proofs
L2-cue_273
in his book geometrical, of this type.
L2-cue_274
Today, we don’t use that kind of reasoning; we use a kind of analytic reasoning with symbols.
L2-cue_275
This [geometrical] kind of reasoning requires an ingenuity—to draw the right triangles (the
L2-cue_276
correct triangles, I mean) to notice about the areas—and to figure
L2-cue_277
out how to do it, you have to be clever.
L2-cue_278
But there have been improvements in the methods of analysis,
L2-cue_279
so that one can be quite more stupid—and I write much faster, and much more efficient, then.
L2-cue_280
I want only to show what it looks like in the notation of the more modern mathematics,
L2-cue_281
where you don’t do anything but write a lot of symbols to figure it out.
L2-cue_282
#First, we would like to talk about how fast the area changes,
L2-cue_283
and we represent that by "area dot".
L2-cue_284
And the area changes, because when the radius is swinging, it’s the component of velocity
L2-cue_285
at right angles to the radius, times the radius, that tells how fast the area changes.
L2-cue_286
So this is the component of the radial distance, multiplied by the velocity,
L2-cue_287
or rate of change of the distance.
L2-cue_288
#Now, the question is, whether the rate of change of area itself changes.
L2-cue_289
The principle, is it’s not supposed to change; the rate of change
L2-cue_290
of area is not supposed to change.
L2-cue_291
So we differentiate (so called) this again; it means some little trick
L2-cue_292
about putting dots in the right place.
L2-cue_293
And that’s all; you have to learn the tricks—it’s just a series of rules
L2-cue_294
that people have found out that are very powerful for such a thing.
L2-cue_295
And this says, the component of the velocity at right angles to the velocity:
L2-cue_296
it is none-there is none; the velocity is in the same direction as itself.
L2-cue_297
And the acceleration, which is this thing, the second derivative,
L2-cue_298
or the derivative of velocity, is the force divided by the mass.
L2-cue_299
#So this says that the rate of change of the rate of change of the area is the component
L2-cue_300
of force at right angles to the radius.
L2-cue_301
But if the force is in a direction of the radius, as Newton said, then there’s no force
L2-cue_302
at right angles to the radius and that means that the rate of change of area doesn’t change.
L2-cue_303
#I just wanted to illustrate the different kinds of notation.
L2-cue_304
#Now, Newton knew how to do this, more or less, with slightly different notation,
L2-cue_305
but he wrote everything this way because he tried
L2-cue_306
to make it possible for people to read his papers.
L2-cue_307
He invented the calculus, which is this kind of mathematics, and is a good illustration
L2-cue_308
of the relation of mathematics to physics.
L2-cue_309
#When the problems in physics get difficult, we may often look to the mathematicians
L2-cue_310
who have already studied such a thing, and have reasoned about such an item before,
L2-cue_311
and have prepared a line of reasoning for us to follow.
L2-cue_312
On the other hand, they may not have—in which case we have to invent our own line
L2-cue_313
of reasoning, which will then pass back to the mathematicians,
L2-cue_314
because everybody who reasons carefully about anything is making a contribution
L2-cue_315
to the knowledge of what happens when you think about something.
L2-cue_316
And if you abstract it away, and send it to the department of mathematics,
L2-cue_317
they put it in the books as a branch of mathematics.
L2-cue_318
#Mathematics, then, is a way of going from one set of statements to another.
L2-cue_319
It’s evidently useful in physics, because we have all these different ways
L2-cue_320
that we could speak of things, and it permits us to develop consequences, and analyze situations,
L2-cue_321
and change the laws in different ways, and to connect all the various statements.
L2-cue_322
So that, as a matter of fact, the total amount that a physicist knows is very little:
L2-cue_323
he has only to remember the rules for getting from one place
L2-cue_324
to another, and he’s able to do it then.
L2-cue_325
#In other words, all of the various statements—about equal times,
L2-cue_326
the forces in a direction of the radius, and so on—are all interconnected by reasoning.
L2-cue_327
Now, an interesting question comes up: is there some pattern to it?
L2-cue_328
Is there a place to begin—fundamental principles—and deduce the whole works?
L2-cue_329
Or, is there some particular pattern, or order in nature, in which we can understand
L2-cue_330
that these are more fundamental statements, and these are more consequential statements?
L2-cue_331
#There are two kinds of ways of looking at mathematics, which for the purpose
L2-cue_332
of this lecture I will call the Babylonian tradition, and the Greek tradition.
L2-cue_333
In Babylonian schools in mathematics, the student would learn something
L2-cue_334
by doing a large number of examples, until he caught onto the general rule.
L2-cue_335
Also, a large amount of geometry was known—a lot of properties of circles, Theorem of Pythagoras,
L2-cue_336
formulas for the areas of cubes and triangles and everything else—and some degree
L2-cue_337
of argument was available to go from one thing to another.
L2-cue_338
Tables of numerical quantities were available so that you could solve elaborate equations
L2-cue_339
and so on-everything was prepared for calculating things out.
L2-cue_340
But Euclid discovered that there was a way in which all of the theorems
L2-cue_341
of geometry could be ordered from a set of axioms
L2-cue_342
that were particularly simple—and you’re all familiar with that much geometry, I’m sure.
L2-cue_343
#But the Babylonian attitude was—if I make my way of talking what I call Babylonian mathematics—is
L2-cue_344
that you know all these various theorems and many of the connections in between,
L2-cue_345
but you’ve never really realized that it could all come up from a bunch of axioms.
L2-cue_346
#Modern mathematics, the most modern mathematics, concentrates on axioms and demonstrations
L2-cue_347
within a very definite framework of conventions
L2-cue_348
of what’s acceptable and not acceptable as axioms.
L2-cue_349
For example, in geometry, it takes something like Euclid’s axioms (modified
L2-cue_350
to be made more perfect), and then to show the deduction of the system.
L2-cue_351
For instance, it would not be expected that a theorem like Pythagoras’—that the sum
L2-cue_352
of the squares (of the areas of squares) put on the sides of the triangle will equal the area
L2-cue_353
of a square on a hypotenuse—should be an axiom.
L2-cue_354
#On the other hand, from another point of view of geometry—that
L2-cue_355
of Descartes-the Pythagorean Theorem is an axiom.
L2-cue_356
So the first thing we have to worry about is that, even in mathematics,
L2-cue_357
you can start in different places.
L2-cue_358
Because all these various theorems are interconnected by reasoning,
L2-cue_359
there isn’t any real way to say, "Well, these on the bottom, here, are the bottom,
L2-cue_360
and these are connected through logic."
L2-cue_361
Because if you were told this one instead, or this one,
L2-cue_362
you could also run the logic the other way,
L2-cue_363
if you weren’t told that one, and work out that one.
L2-cue_364
It’s like a bridge with lots of members, and it’s overconnected: if pieces have dropped out,
L2-cue_365
you can reconnect it another way.
L2-cue_366
#The mathematical tradition of today is to start with some particular ones,
L2-cue_367
which are chosen by some kind of convention to be axioms,
L2-cue_368
and then to build up the structure from there.
L2-cue_369
The "Babylonian" thing that I’m talking about (which I know is really not Babylonian) is
L2-cue_370
to say, "Well, I happen to know this, and I happen to know that, and maybe I know that,
L2-cue_371
and I work everything out from there.
L2-cue_372
And then tomorrow I forgot that this was true, but I remembered that this was true,
L2-cue_373
and then I reconstruct it again, and so on—I’m never quite sure of where I’m supposed to begin,
L2-cue_374
and where I’m supposed to end; I just remember enough all the time so that as the memory fades,
L2-cue_375
and the pieces fall out, I put this thing back together again every day.
L2-cue_376
#The method of starting from the axioms is not efficient in obtaining the theorems;
L2-cue_377
in working something out in geometry, you’re not very efficient
L2-cue_378
if each time you have to start back at the axioms.
L2-cue_379
But if you have to remember a few things in the geometry, you can always get somewhere else;
L2-cue_380
it’s much more efficient to do it the other way: what the best axioms are,
L2-cue_381
are not exactly the same—in fact, are not ever the same—as the most efficient way
L2-cue_382
of getting around in the territory.
L2-cue_383
In physics, we need the Babylonian method, and not the Euclidean
L2-cue_384
or Greek method, and I would like to say why.
L2-cue_385
#The problem in the Euclidean method is to make something
L2-cue_386
about the axioms a little bit more interesting or important.
L2-cue_387
But the question that we have is, in the case of gravitation,
L2-cue_388
is it more important—is it more basic, is it more fundamental, is it a better axiom—to say
L2-cue_389
that the force is directed toward the sun, or to say that equal areas are swept in equal time?
L2-cue_390
#Well, from one point of view, the force is better,
L2-cue_391
because once I state what the forces are, I can deal with a system with many particles,
L2-cue_392
in which the orbits are no longer ellipses—because of the pull of one
L2-cue_393
on the other-and the theorem about equal areas fails.
L2-cue_394
Therefore, I think that the force law ought to be an axiom, instead of the other.
L2-cue_395
#On the other hand, the principle that equal times is swept
L2-cue_396
out in equal—equal areas are swept out in equal times—can be generalized, when there’s a system
L2-cue_397
of a large number of particles, to another theorem (which I had prepared to explain,
L2-cue_398
but I see I’m running out of time): there’s another statement,
L2-cue_399
which is a little more general than equal areas in equal time.
L2-cue_400
#Well, I have to state what it is.
L2-cue_401
It’s rather complicated to say, and it’s not quite as pretty as this one,
L2-cue_402
but it’s obviously the son of this one—I mean it’s the offspring.
L2-cue_403
If you look at all these particles—Jupiter, Saturn, the sun,
L2-cue_404
and all these things going around; lots of stars, or whatever they are,
L2-cue_405
all interacting with each other—and look at it from far away, and project it on a plane
L2-cue_406
like this picture, then everything is moving—this moving this way,
L2-cue_407
and that moving that way, and so on.
L2-cue_408
#Then take any point at all—say this point—and then calculate how much each one is changing its
L2-cue_409
area-how much area is being swept out by the radius
L2-cue_410
to every particle, and add them all together.
L2-cue_411
But wait: those masses which are heavier—this is twice as heavy as this one;
L2-cue_412
then this area counts twice as much.
L2-cue_413
So you count each of the areas that are being swept out in proportion
L2-cue_414
to the mass that’s doing the sweeping, and the total of all of that is not changing
L2-cue_415
in time-that’s a generalization, obviously, of the other one.
L2-cue_416
Incidentally, the total of that is called the angular momentum, and this is called the law
L2-cue_417
of conservation of angular momentum.
L2-cue_418
("Conservation" just means that it doesn’t change.)
L2-cue_419
#Now, one of the consequences of this is—just to show what it’s good for—imagine a lot
L2-cue_420
of stars falling together to form a nebula or a galaxy.
L2-cue_421
As they come closer in—if they were very far out, and moving slowly so there was a little bit
L2-cue_422
of area being generated but on very long arms (distances from the center),
L2-cue_423
then if the thing falls in, the distances
L2-cue_424
to the center are shorter now (if all the stars are now close in), then these radii are smaller.
L2-cue_425
And in order to sweep out the same area, they have to go a lot faster.
L2-cue_426
So as the things come in, they swing—swirl around—and thus we can roughly understand the
L2-cue_427
qualitative shape of the spiral nebulae.
L2-cue_428
#You can also understand, in the same way—exactly the same way—the way a skater spins:
L2-cue_429
when you start with a leg out, moving slowly, and as you pull the leg in,
L2-cue_430
it spins faster (because when the leg is out, it’s contributing, when it’s moving slowly,
L2-cue_431
a certain amount of area per second), and then, when it comes in,
L2-cue_432
to get the same area you have to go around faster.
L2-cue_433
But I didn’t prove it for the skater: the skater uses muscle force;
L2-cue_434
gravity is a different force—yet it’s proof for the skater.
L2-cue_435
#Now we have a problem: we can deduce often from one part of physics,
L2-cue_436
like the law of gravitation, a principle which turns
L2-cue_437
out to be much more valid than the derivation!
L2-cue_438
This doesn’t happen in mathematics—that theorems come out in places
L2-cue_439
where they’re not supposed to be.
L2-cue_440
In other words, if we were to say that the postulates of physics were this law
L2-cue_441
of gravitation, we could deduce the conservation of angular momentum, but only for gravitation.
L2-cue_442
But we discover experimentally that the conservation
L2-cue_443
of angular momentum is a much wider thing.
L2-cue_444
#Now, Newton had other postulates by which he could get the more general conservation law
L2-cue_445
of angular momentum, but Newtonian laws were wrong: there’s no forces;
L2-cue_446
it’s all a lot of baloney; the particles don’t have orbits, and so on.
L2-cue_447
Yet, the analog-the exact transformation of this principle about the area as the conservation
L2-cue_448
of angular momentum-is true for the atomic motions in quantum mechanics-and is still,
L2-cue_449
as far as we can tell today, exact.
L2-cue_450
#So we have these wide principles which sweep across all the different laws,
L2-cue_451
and if one takes too seriously his derivations, and feels that this is only valid
L2-cue_452
because this is valid, you cannot understand the interconnections
L2-cue_453
of the different branches of physics.
L2-cue_454
Someday, when physics is complete, then maybe with this kind of argument we know all the laws,
L2-cue_455
then we could start with some axioms—and no doubt somebody will figure out a particular way
L2-cue_456
of doing it, and then all of the deductions will be made.
L2-cue_457
But while we don’t know all the laws, we can use some to make guesses
L2-cue_458
at theorems, which extend beyond the proof.
L2-cue_459
#So in order to understand the physics, one must always have a neat balance and contain
L2-cue_460
in his head all of the various propositions and their interrelationships,
L2-cue_461
because the laws often extend beyond the range of their deductions.
L2-cue_462
This will only have no importance when all the laws are known.
L2-cue_463
#Another thing that’s interesting in the relation of mathematics
L2-cue_464
to physics is this—a very strange thing: that by mathematical arguments you can show
L2-cue_465
that you can start from very many different apparent starting points,
L2-cue_466
and come to the same thing.
L2-cue_467
That’s pretty clear, if you have axioms; you can use some of the theorems.
L2-cue_468
But actually, the physical laws are so delicately constructed that the statements
L2-cue_469
of them have such qualitatively different characters, that it’s very interesting.
L2-cue_470
#So, if you’ll permit me, I’m going to state the law of gravitation in three different ways—all
L2-cue_471
of which are exactly equivalent, it turns out—but they sound completely different.
L2-cue_472
#One: there’s the forces between the objects as described before, and each object,
L2-cue_473
when it sees the force on it, accelerates—or changes its motion,
L2-cue_474
rather—at a certain amount per second,
L2-cue_475
as I’ve described before—the regular way; I call it Newton’s Law.
L2-cue_476
#Now, there’s a completely different way: that law says that the force depends
L2-cue_477
on something at a finite distance away.
L2-cue_478
See, it has what we call an "unlocal" quality:
L2-cue_479
the force on this depends on where that one is over there.
L2-cue_480
Now, you may not like the idea of action at a distance—that it can "know" what’s going
L2-cue_481
on over there-so then there’s another way of stating the laws, which are very strange,
L2-cue_482
and it’s called the field way of representing the laws—and it’s so very hard to explain,
L2-cue_483
but I just want to give you some rough idea of what it’s like.
L2-cue_484
#And it says a different thing, a completely different thing: that there’s a number
L2-cue_485
at every point in space—I know it’s a number; it’s not a mechanism;
L2-cue_486
it’s the trouble with this whole physics, that it must be mathematical.
L2-cue_487
There’s a number at every point in space—here’s a number, here’s a number, and so on.
L2-cue_488
And the number is changing—it changes, rather—when you go from place to place.
L2-cue_489
If an object is placed at one of these points somewhere in space, the force on it is
L2-cue_490
in a direction in which that number—I’ll call it the name it’s given, called a potential—is
L2-cue_491
in the direction in which that potential changes as quick as it can.
L2-cue_492
And the force is proportional to how fast it changes as you move.
L2-cue_493
That’s one statement; that’s not enough, yet, because I have to tell you, now,
L2-cue_494
how to determine how the potential varies.
L2-cue_495
I could say the potential varies as 1 over the distance from each object,
L2-cue_496
but that’s back to the action—at—a—distance idea.
L2-cue_497
#However—the force is at a distance, but—you can state the law in another way,
L2-cue_498
and it says the following: you don’t have to know what’s going on anywhere outside
L2-cue_499
of a little ball; if you want to know what the potential is here, you tell me what it is
L2-cue_500
on the surface of any ball, no matter how small—you don’t have to look outside,
L2-cue_501
you just tell me what it is
L2-cue_502
in the neighborhood—and how much mass there is in the ball.
L2-cue_503
#The rule is this: that the potential at the center is equal to the average of the potential
L2-cue_504
on the little ball surface, minus this constant (that’s over there on the other equation),
L2-cue_505
divided by twice the radius of the ball (let’s suppose the radius of the ball is called a),
L2-cue_506
and then multiplied by the mass that’s inside the ball—if the ball is small enough.
L2-cue_507
#Now you see that this law is different than the other one, because it only tells what happens
L2-cue_508
at one point in terms of what happens very close by.
L2-cue_509
Newton’s laws tell what happens at one time in terms of what happens
L2-cue_510
at another instant—it skips from instant to instant, how to work it out—but
L2-cue_511
in space it leaps from place to place.
L2-cue_512
But this thing is both local in time, and also local in space,
L2-cue_513
because it depends only on what’s in the neighborhood.
L2-cue_514
#And [so] there’s another way
L2-cue_515
of representing—that’s another way—a completely different way.
L2-cue_516
See, there’s a difference in the philosophy, in the qualitative ideas involved.
L2-cue_517
You don’t like action at a distance?
L2-cue_518
You can get away without it.
L2-cue_519
#Now I’ll show you one which is philosophically the exact opposite,
L2-cue_520
in which there’s no discussion at all about how the thing works its way from place to place,
L2-cue_521
in which the whole thing is an overall statement, and goes as follows:
L2-cue_522
when you have other particles around, and you want to know how this one moves from one place
L2-cue_523
to another, you do it as follows.
L2-cue_524
#You calculate a certain quantity for—you invent a possible motion that gets from one given place
L2-cue_525
to some other place that you’re interested in, in a given amount of time.
L2-cue_526
Say it wants to go from here to here in an hour, and you want to know by what route it can get
L2-cue_527
from there to there in an hour—by what curve.
L2-cue_528
#So what you do is, you calculate a quantity, guessing the curve; if you try this curve,
L2-cue_529
you calculate a certain number for this quantity.
L2-cue_530
(I don’t want to just tell you what the quantity is, but for those who have heard of these terms,
L2-cue_531
this quantity on this route is the average of the difference
L2-cue_532
between the kinetic and potential energy.)
L2-cue_533
Now, if you calculate this quantity for this route, then for another route, you’ll get,
L2-cue_534
of course, different numbers for the answer.
L2-cue_535
But there’s one route which gives the least possible number for that,
L2-cue_536
and that’s the route that the particle takes.
L2-cue_537
#Now we’re describing the actual motion—the ellipse—by saying something
L2-cue_538
about the whole curve.
L2-cue_539
We have lost the idea of causality—that the particle is here,
L2-cue_540
it sees the pull, it moves to here.
L2-cue_541
Instead of that, in some grand fashion, it "smells" all the curves
L2-cue_542
around here—all the possibilities—and "decides" which one to take.
L2-cue_543
#This is an example of the wide range of beautiful ways of describing nature.
L2-cue_544
And that when people talk that nature must have causality—well,
L2-cue_545
you could talk about it this way; nature must be stated in terms of a minimum principle—well,
L2-cue_546
you can talk about it this way; nature must have a local field—so it can do that, and so on.
L2-cue_547
And the question is, which one is right?
L2-cue_548
#Now, if these various alternatives are mathematically not exactly equivalent,
L2-cue_549
and if for certain ones there will be different consequences than for others,
L2-cue_550
then that’s perfectly all right, because we have only to do the experiments to find
L2-cue_551
out which way nature actually chooses to do it.
L2-cue_552
Mostly, people come along and they argue philosophically they like this one better
L2-cue_553
than that one, but we have learned from much experience that all intuitions
L2-cue_554
about what nature’s going to do philosophically fail—it never works.
L2-cue_555
One just has to work out all the possibilities, and just try all the alternatives.
L2-cue_556
Now, in this particular case that I’m talking about here,
L2-cue_557
these theories are exactly equivalent.
L2-cue_558
The mathematical consequences in every one of the different formulations
L2-cue_559
of the three formulations—Newton’s laws, the local field method,
L2-cue_560
and this minimum principle—give exactly the same consequences.
L2-cue_561
What do we do then?
L2-cue_562
You will read in all the books that we therefore cannot decide scientifically
L2-cue_563
on one or the other.
L2-cue_564
That’s true.
L2-cue_565
#They’re not equivalent—they are equivalent, scientifically;
L2-cue_566
it is impossible to make a decision, because there’s no experimental way to distinguish
L2-cue_567
if all the consequences are the same.
L2-cue_568
Psychologically they’re very different in two ways.
L2-cue_569
First, philosophically, you like them or don’t
L2-cue_570
like them-training is the only thing you can do to beat that disease.
L2-cue_571
Second, psychologically they’re different because they’re completely unequivalent
L2-cue_572
when you go to guess at a new law.
L2-cue_573
As long as physics is incomplete, and we’re trying to find out the other laws,
L2-cue_574
and to understand the other laws, then the different possible formulations give clues
L2-cue_575
as to what might happen in another circumstance.
L2-cue_576
And they become not equivalent in psychologically suggesting to us to guess
L2-cue_577
as to what the laws might look like in a wider situation.
L2-cue_578
#For instance, Einstein noticed that the law of gravity—he said that he realized
L2-cue_579
that signals couldn’t propagate faster than the speed of light for light, [or] for electricity.
L2-cue_580
He guessed that it was a general principle—the same guessing game
L2-cue_581
as taking this angular momentum, and extending it from one case
L2-cue_582
where you proved it, to the rest of the universe.
L2-cue_583
He guessed that it was true of everything, and he guessed that it would be true of gravitation.
L2-cue_584
If the signals can’t go any faster than the speed of light, it turns out that the method
L2-cue_585
of describing the forces instantaneously is very poor.
L2-cue_586
And in the Einstein generalization of gravitation,
L2-cue_587
this method of describing physics is hopelessly inadequate and enormously complicated, whereas,
L2-cue_588
this one is neat and simple—and so is this one—so we haven’t decided between those two yet.
L2-cue_589
#In fact, it turns out that the quantum mechanics says that, exactly as I stated them,
L2-cue_590
neither is right—but the fact that a minimum principle exists turns out to be a consequence
L2-cue_591
of the fact that, on a small scale, particles obey quantum mechanics.
L2-cue_592
And the fact is, the best laws, as presently understood, are really a combination of the two,
L2-cue_593
in which we use minimum principles plus local force—local laws.
L2-cue_594
And present day believes that the laws of physics have to have the local character,
L2-cue_595
and also the minimum principle—but we don’t really know.
L2-cue_596
#So, it’s this way: if you have a structure that’s only partly accurate,
L2-cue_597
and something is going to fail, if you write it with just the right axioms,
L2-cue_598
maybe only one axiom fails—and the rest remain; you [only have to] change one little thing.
L2-cue_599
But if you write it with another set of axioms,
L2-cue_600
they all collapse, because they all lean on that.
L2-cue_601
But we can’t tell ahead of time, without some intuition and guesswork,
L2-cue_602
as to which is the best way to write it, until we find out the new situation.
L2-cue_603
So we must, therefore, always keep all of the alternative ways of looking at the thing
L2-cue_604
in our heads; so the physicists do "Babylonian" mathematics, and pay little attention
L2-cue_605
to the precise reasoning from fixed axioms.
L2-cue_606
#One of the amazing characteristics of nature is this variety
L2-cue_607
of interpretational schemes which is possible.
L2-cue_608
It turns out that it’s only possible because the laws are just so, and special, and delicate.
L2-cue_609
For instance, that the law is the inverse square is what permits it
L2-cue_610
to become local-if it were the inverse cube, it couldn’t be done this way.
L2-cue_611
That the other end of the equation—that the force is related to the rate of change
L2-cue_612
of the velocity-that permits this kind of a way of writing the laws (the minimum principle),
L2-cue_613
because if, for instance, the force were proportional to the rate of change
L2-cue_614
of position instead of velocity, you couldn’t write it in that way.
L2-cue_615
If you try to modify the laws much, you find you can only write them in very much fewer ways.
L2-cue_616
I always find that mysterious—and I don’t understand the reason why it is—that the laws
L2-cue_617
of physics always seem to be possible to be expressed in such a tremendous variety
L2-cue_618
of ways-they seem to be able to get through several wickets at the same time.
L2-cue_619
#Now, I would like to make a number of remarks on the relation of mathematics
L2-cue_620
and physics, which are a little more general.
L2-cue_621
The first is, that the mathematicians only are dealing with the structure of the reasoning,
L2-cue_622
and they do not really care about what they’re talking.
L2-cue_623
They don’t even need to know what they’re talking about—or,
L2-cue_624
as they themselves say, whether what they say is true.
L2-cue_625
Now, I explain that.
L2-cue_626
#If you state the axioms—you say: such—and—such is so, and such—and—such is so,
L2-cue_627
and such—and—such is so; what then?—then the logic can be carried
L2-cue_628
out without knowing what the "such—and—such" words mean.
L2-cue_629
That is, if the statements about the axioms are carefully formulated, and are complete enough,
L2-cue_630
it is not necessary for the man who is doing the reasoning
L2-cue_631
to have any knowledge of the meaning of these words.
L2-cue_632
#And he’ll be able to deduce, in the same language, new conclusions:
L2-cue_633
if I use the word "triangle" in one of the axioms, there’d be some statement
L2-cue_634
about "triangles" in the conclusion.
L2-cue_635
Whereas, the man who’s doing the reasoning might not know what the "triangle" is.
L2-cue_636
But then I can read his thing back and say, "Oh, a triangle—well,
L2-cue_637
that’s just a three—sided what—have—you that’s a so—and—so"—and so I know this new fact.
L2-cue_638
In other words, mathematicians prepare abstract reasoning that’s ready to be used
L2-cue_639
if you will only have a set of axioms about the real world.
L2-cue_640
But the physicist has meaning to all the phrases.
L2-cue_641
#And there’s a very important thing that the people who—a lot of people who—study physics
L2-cue_642
that come from mathematics don’t appreciate: that physics is not mathematics,
L2-cue_643
and mathematics is not physics; one helps the other.
L2-cue_644
#But [In physics] you have to have some understanding of the connection of the words
L2-cue_645
with the real world: it’s necessary, at the end, to translate what you figured
L2-cue_646
out into English-into the world, into the blocks of copper and glass that you’re going
L2-cue_647
to do the experiments with—to find out whether the consequences are true.
L2-cue_648
This is a problem which is not a problem with mathematics at all.
L2-cue_649
#I’ve already mentioned the only other relationship that—of course,
L2-cue_650
it’s obvious how the mathematical reasonings which have been developed are
L2-cue_651
of great power and use for physicists.
L2-cue_652
On the other hand, sometimes the physicist’s reasoning is useful for mathematicians.
L2-cue_653
Mathematicians also like to make their reasoning as general as possible.
L2-cue_654
If you say I have a three dimensional space—an ordinary space,
L2-cue_655
I want to talk about ordinary space, you know, you’re in it, you measure distances
L2-cue_656
and there are three numbers you need to tell where something is, you go breadth,
L2-cue_657
width and height, three dimensional space—and you begin to ask him about theorems.
L2-cue_658
Then they say, "Now look, if you had a space of n dimensions, then here are the theorems."
L2-cue_659
"Well, yeah, but I only want the case 3."
L2-cue_660
"Well, substitute n = 3"—and then it turns out that very many
L2-cue_661
of the complicated theorems they have are much simpler,
L2-cue_662
because it happens to be a special case.
L2-cue_663
#Now, the physicist is always interested in the special case;
L2-cue_664
he’s never interested in the general case.
L2-cue_665
He’s talking about something; he’s not talking abstractly about anything;
L2-cue_666
he knows what he’s talking about: he wants to discuss the gravity law;
L2-cue_667
he doesn’t want the arbitrary force case; he wants the gravity law.
L2-cue_668
And so there’s a certain amount of reducing
L2-cue_669
because the mathematicians have prepared these things for a wide range
L2-cue_670
of problems, which is very useful.
L2-cue_671
And later on, it always turns out that the poor physicist has to come back and say, "Excuse me,
L2-cue_672
when you wanted to tell me about the four dimensions..."
L2-cue_673
#Now, another item that’s interesting
L2-cue_674
in this relationship is the question of how to do new physics.
L2-cue_675
Is it important to have a feeling, a kind of intuition—oh, I must mention one other item:
L2-cue_676
when you know what it is you’re talking about—that these things are forces,
L2-cue_677
and these are masses, and this is inertia, and this is so on—then you can use an awful lot
L2-cue_678
of commonsense seat—of—the—pants feeling about the world: you’ve seen various things;
L2-cue_679
you know more or less how the phenomenon is going to behave.
L2-cue_680
#Well, the poor mathematician, he translates it into equations,
L2-cue_681
and the symbols don’t mean anything to him, and he has no guide
L2-cue_682
but precise mathematical rigor and care in the argument.
L2-cue_683
Whereas the physicist, who knows more or less how the answer is going to come out,
L2-cue_684
can sort of guess part way and go right along rather rapidly—the mathematical rigor
L2-cue_685
of great precision is not very useful in the physics, nor is the modern attitude
L2-cue_686
in mathematics to look at axioms.
L2-cue_687
#Now, mathematicians can do what they want to do.
L2-cue_688
One should not criticize them, because they are not slaves to physics.
L2-cue_689
It is not necessary that, just because this would be useful to you, they have to do it
L2-cue_690
that way; they can do what they will—it’s their own job—and
L2-cue_691
if you want something else, then you work it out yourself.
L2-cue_692
#The next point is the question of whether we should guess, when we try to get a new law,
L2-cue_693
whether we should use a seat—of—the—pants feeling, and philosophical principle—I don’t
L2-cue_694
like a minimum principle, or I do like a minimum principle; or I don’t like action at a distance,
L2-cue_695
or I do like action—the question is, to what extent models help.
L2-cue_696
It’s a very interesting thing: very often, models help—and most physics teachers try
L2-cue_697
to teach how to use these models and get a good "physical feel"
L2-cue_698
for how things are going to work out.
L2-cue_699
But the greatest discoveries, it always turns out,
L2-cue_700
abstract away from the model; it never did any good.
L2-cue_701
Maxwell’s discovery of electrodynamics was first made with a lot of imaginary wheels and idlers
L2-cue_702
and everything else in space; if you got rid of all the idlers
L2-cue_703
and everything else in space, the thing was okay.
L2-cue_704
Dirac discovered the correct laws
L2-cue_705
of quantum mechanics—for relativity quantum mechanics—simply by guessing the equation.
L2-cue_706
The method of guessing the equation seems to be a pretty effective way of guessing new laws.
L2-cue_707
This shows, again, that mathematics is a deep way of expressing nature,
L2-cue_708
and attempts to express nature in philosophical principles,
L2-cue_709
or in seat-of-the-pants mechanical feelings, is not an efficient way.
L2-cue_710
#I must say, that it is possible—and I’ve often made the hypothesis—that physics ultimately will
L2-cue_711
not require a mathematical statement,
L2-cue_712
that the machinery ultimately will be revealed—it’s just a prejudice,
L2-cue_713
like one of these other prejudices.
L2-cue_714
It always bothers me that, in spite of all this "local" business, what goes on—in no—matter—
L2-cue_715
how—tiny a region of space, and no—matter—how—tiny a region of time,
L2-cue_716
according to the laws as we understand them today—takes a computing machine an infinite
L2-cue_717
number of logical operations to figure out.
L2-cue_718
Now, how could all that be going on in that tiny space?
L2-cue_719
Why should it take an infinite amount of logic to figure out what one stinky,
L2-cue_720
tiny bit of space-time is going to do?
L2-cue_721
So I made the hypothesis often that the laws are going to turn out to be, in the end,
L2-cue_722
simple like the checkerboard, and that all the complexity is from size—but that is
L2-cue_723
of the same nature as the other speculations that other people make that say, "I like it;
L2-cue_724
you don’t like it"-it’s not good to be too prejudiced about the thing.
L2-cue_725
#To summarize, I would use the words of J. H. Jeans, who said that the great architect seems
L2-cue_726
to be a mathematician—and for you who don’t know mathematics, it’s really quite difficult
L2-cue_727
to get a real feeling across as to the beauty, the deepest beauty, of nature.
L2-cue_728
C.P. Snow talked about two cultures.
L2-cue_729
I really think that those two cultures are people who do, and people who do not—people
L2-cue_730
who have had, and people who have not had this experience
L2-cue_731
of understanding mathematics well enough to appreciate nature once.
L2-cue_732
It’s too bad that it has to be mathematics, and that mathematics for some people is hard.
L2-cue_733
When one of the [kings] (it’s reputed, I don’t know if it’s true,
L2-cue_734
that when one of the kings) was trying to learn geometry from Euclid,
L2-cue_735
he complained that it was difficult.
L2-cue_736
And Euclid said, "There’s no royal road to geometry."
L2-cue_737
There’s no royal road.
L2-cue_738
It’s not the job-we cannot, as people who look at this thing, the physicists,
L2-cue_739
cannot convert this thing to any other language.
L2-cue_740
#You have-if you want to discuss nature, to learn about nature, and to appreciate nature,
L2-cue_741
it’s necessary-to find out the language that she speaks in.
L2-cue_742
She offers her information only in one form.
L2-cue_743
We are not so unhumble as to actually demand that she change before we pay any attention.
L2-cue_744
It seems to me that it’s like: all the intellectual arguments
L2-cue_745
that you can make would not in any way—or very, very little—communicate
L2-cue_746
to deaf ears what the experience of music really is; all the intellectual arguments
L2-cue_747
in the world will not convince those of "the other culture"—the philosophers who try
L2-cue_748
to teach you by telling you qualitatively about this thing.
L2-cue_749
[People like] me, who’s trying to describe it to you (but is not getting it across,
L2-cue_750
because it’s impossible), we’re talking to deaf ears.
L2-cue_751
It’s perhaps that their horizons are [so] limited, which permit such people to imagine
L2-cue_752
that the center of the universe of interest is man.
L2-cue_753
#Thank you.